Add documentation for Security Analytics UI updates for 2.8 (#4208)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/detectors-config.md

    
    When multiple data sources are selected, the logs must be of the same type. We recommend creating separate detectors for different log types.
    {: .note }
    
1. In the **Log types and rules** section, select the log type for the data source. The Sigma security rules associated with the log data are automatically populated in the **Detection rules** section, as shown in the following image.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/detector_rules.png" alt="Selecting threat detector type to auto-populate rules" width="85%">

    When selecting **Network events**, **CloudTrail logs**, or **S3 access logs** as the log type, a detector dashboard is automatically created. The dashboard offers visualizations for the detector and can provide security-related insight into log source data. For more information about visualizations, see [Building data visualizations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/).
    
    You can skip the next step for applying select rules if you are satisfied with those automatically populated by the system. Otherwise, go to the next step to select rules individually.
    {: .note }

> 1. Select the **Detection rules** arrow to expand the list of available detection rules for the selected log type. Specify only those rules you want applied to the detector, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Expand **Detection rules** to show the list of available detection rules for the selected log type, then select the rules you want applied to the detector. The following image shows a set of rules selected for the X detector.
```

    {: .note }
    
1. In the **Log types and rules** section, select the log type for the data source. The system automatically populates the Sigma security rules associated with the log type. The following image shows the number of associated rules populated in the **Detection rules** section.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/detector_rules.png" alt="Selecting threat detector type to auto-populate rules" width="85%">

    When you select **Network events**, **CloudTrail logs**, or **S3 access logs** as the log type, the system automatically creates a detector dashboard. The dashboard offers visualizations for the detector and can provide security-related insight into log source data. For more information about visualizations, see [Building data visualizations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/).
    
    You can skip the next step for applying select rules if you are satisfied with those automatically populated by the system. Otherwise, go to the next step to select rules individually.
    {: .note }

> 1. Expand **Detection rules** to show the list of available detection rules for the selected log type. Initially, all rules are selected by default. The following image shows all of the toggles for the rules on and selected.

Reviewer 2: End of the last sentence: Do we mean "turned on and selected"?

    * Use the **Rule severity** and **Source** dropdown lists to filter the rules you want to select from. 
    * Use the **Search** bar to search for specific rules.

    To quickly select one or more known rules and dismiss others, first deselect all rules by turning off the **Rule name** toggle, then search for your target rule names and select each individually by turning its toggle on.
    {: .tip }

## Step 2. Create field mappings

The field mapping step matches field names from the detector rule with field names from the log index being used to provide data. Creating field mappings allows the system to accurately pass event data from the log to the detector and then use the data to trigger alerts.

The data source (log index), log type, and detection rules specified in the first step determine which fields are available for mapping. For example, when "Windows logs" is selected as the log type, this parameter, along with the specific detection rules, determines the list of detection field names available for the mapping. Similarly, the selected data source determines the list of log source field names that are available for the mapping.

> The system uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation and it can automatically map important fields for a specific log type with the corresponding fields in the Sigma rules. The field mapping step presents a view of automatically mapped fields while also providing the option to customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can follow this step to manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The system uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation, and it can automatically map important fields for a specific log type with the corresponding fields in the Sigma rules. The field mapping step presents a view of automatically mapped fields while also providing the option to customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can follow this step to manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.
```

Because the system has the ability to automatically map field names, this step is optional. However, the more fields that can be mapped between detector fields and log source fields, the greater the accuracy of generated findings.

#### A note on field names

> If you choose to perform manual field mapping, the expectation is that you are familiar with the field names in the log index and have an understanding of the data contained in those fields. If you have an understanding of the log source fields in the index, the mapping is typically a straightforward process.

Reviewer 2: "If you choose to perform manual field mapping, you should be familiar with..."?

    To quickly select one or more known rules and dismiss others, first deselect all rules by moving the **Rule name** toggle to the left, then search for your target rule names and select each individually by moving its toggle to the right.
    {: .tip }

## Step 2. Create field mappings

The field mapping step matches field names from the rule with field names from the log index being used to provide data. Creating field mappings allows the system to accurately pass event data from the log to the detector and then use the data to trigger alerts.

The data source (log index), log type, and detection rules specified in the first step determine which fields are available for mapping. For example, when "Windows logs" is selected as the log type, this parameter, along with the specific detection rules, determines the list of detection field names available for the mapping. Similarly, the selected data source determines the list of log source field names that are available for the mapping.

> The system uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation and it can automatically map important fields for a specific log type with the corresponding fields in the Sigma rules. The field mapping step presents a view of automatically mapped fields while also providing the option to customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can follow this step to manually map rule field names to log source field names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation and it can automatically map important fields for a specific log type with the corresponding fields in the Sigma rules. The field mapping step presents a view of automatically mapped fields while also providing the option to customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can follow this step to manually map the field names of rules to field names of log sources.
```

Author: This section gets marked for changes by different reviewers every version release, with different reviewers making suggested changes to content that was changed based on suggestions in previous versions. It is perpetually being suggested for change, and I suspect it will continue to get reviewed and blessed with fresh suggested changes each and every subsequent version of OpenSearch until the end of time. In fact, this phenomenon is somewhat inherent in the doc review process.

Anyhow, in this case, I think it's better to stay close to the syntax used in the UI labels, i.e., "Detector field name", 'log source field name".

Author: In this case, I think it's better to stay close to the syntax used in the UI labels, i.e., "Detector field name", 'log source field name". Although I did change "rule" to "detector", even if they are synonymous in this application.

Although the ECS rule field names are largely self-explanatory, you can find predefined mappings of the Sigma rule field names to ECS rule field names, for all supported log types, in the GitHub Security Analytics repository. Navigate to the [OSMappings](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-analytics/tree/main/src/main/resources/OSMapping) folder, choose the folder named for the log type, and open the `fieldmappings.yml` file. For example, to see the Sigma rule fields that correspond to ECS rule fields for the Windows log type, open the [fieldmappings.yml file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-analytics/blob/main/src/main/resources/OSMapping/windows/fieldmappings.yml) in the **windows** folder.

### Automatically mapped fields

> Once you select a data source and log type, the system attempts to automatically map fields between the log and rule fields. Select the **Automatically mapped fields** arrow to expand the list of these mappings. When the field names are similar to one another, the system can successfully match the two, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you select a data source and log type, the system attempts to automatically map fields between the log and rule fields. Expand the **Automatically mapped fields** field to show the list of these mappings. When the field names are similar to one another, the system can successfully match the two, as shown in the following image.
```

* The **Detector field name** column lists field names based on all of the prepackaged rules associated with the selected log type.
* The **Log source field name** column includes a dropdown list for each of the detector fields. Each dropdown list contains field names extracted from the log index.
* To map a detector field name to a log source field name, use the dropdown arrow to open the list of log source fields and select the log field name from the list. To search for names in the log field list, enter text in the **Select a mapping field** box, as shown in the following image.
  
  <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/log-field.png" alt="Field mapping example for pending mappings" width="60%">
  
* Once the log source field name is selected and mapped to the detector field name, the icon in the **Status** column to the right changes from the alert icon to a check mark.
* Make as many matches between field names as possible to complete an accurate mapping for the detector and log source fields.

## Step 3. Create a detector schedule

> 1. In the **Detector schedule** section, set how often the detector will run. Specify a unit of time and a corresponding number to set the interval.

Reviewer: Add, "The following image shows that the detector runs every 3 minutes." (I know it is obvious, but needed for accessibility.)

    
    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/detector-schedule.png" alt="Detector schedule settings to determine how often the detector runs" width="40%">
    
1. After specifying how often the detector will run, select **Next** in the lower-right corner of the screen. The **Set up alerts** page appears and displays settings for an alert trigger.

## Step 4. Set up alerts

> The fourth step in creating a detector involves setting up alerts. Alerts are configured to create triggers that, when matched with a set of detection rule criteria, send a notification of a possible security event. You can select rule names, rule severity, and tags in any combination to define a trigger. Once a trigger is defined, the alert setup lets you choose the channel on which to be notified and provides options for customizing a message for the notification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The fourth step in creating a detector involves setting up alerts. Alerts are configured to create triggers that, when matched with a set of detection rule criteria, send notifications of possible security events. You can select rule names, rule severity, and tags in any combination to define a trigger. Once a trigger is defined, the alert setup lets you choose the channel on which to be notified and provides options for customizing a message for the notification.
```

1. To define rule matches for the alert, select security rules, severity levels, and tags.
    
    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/alert_rules.png" alt="Defining an alert" width="70%">

    * Select one rule or multiple rules that will trigger the alert. Put the cursor in the **Rule names** box and type a name to search for it. To remove a rule name, select the **X** beside the name. To remove all rule names, select the **X** beside the dropdown list's down arrow.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/rule_name_delete.png" alt="Deletes all selected rules" width="45%">

    * Select one or more rule severity levels as conditions for the alert.
    * Select from a list of tags to include as conditions for the alert.

1. To define a notification for the alert, assign an alert severity, select a channel for the notification, and customize a message generated for the alert.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/alert_notify.png" alt="Notification settings for the alert" width="45%">

    * Assign a level of severity for the alert to give the recipient an indication of its urgency.

>     * Select a channel for the notification from the **Select channel to notify** dropdown list. Examples include Slack, Chime, or email. To create a new channel, select the  **Manage channels** link to the right of the field. The **Channels** page for Notifications opens in a new tab where you can edit and create new channels. For more information about notifications, see the [Notifications]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/notifications/index/) documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Select a channel for the notification from the **Select channel to notify** dropdown list. Examples include Slack, Chime, or email. To create a new channel, select the **Manage channels** link to the right of the field. The **Channels** page for Notifications opens in a new tab where you can edit and create new channels. For more information about notifications, see the [Notifications]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/notifications/index/) documentation.
```

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/rule_name_delete.png" alt="Deletes all selected rules" width="45%">

    * Select one or more rule severity levels as conditions for the alert.
    * Select from a list of tags to include as conditions for the alert.

> 1. To define a notification for the alert, assign an alert severity, select a channel for the notification, and customize a message generated for the alert.

Reviewer: The image should show examples, then you could say, "The following image shows a trigger named X that will run when the severity is X and has X tag applied."

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/alert_notify.png" alt="Notification settings for the alert" width="45%">

    * Assign a level of severity for the alert to give the recipient an indication of its urgency.
    * Select a channel for the notification from the **Select channel to notify** dropdown list. Examples include Slack, Chime, or email. To create a new channel, select the  **Manage channels** link to the right of the field. The **Channels** page for Notifications opens in a new tab where you can edit and create new channels. For more information about notifications, see the [Notifications]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/notifications/index/) documentation.

>     * Select the **Show notify message** arrow to expand message preferences. The message subject and message body are populated with details about the current alert configuration. You can edit these text fields to customize the message. Beneath the message body text box, you can select **Generate message** to populate more details in the message, such as rule names, rule severity levels, and rule tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Expand the **Show notify message** field to show the message preferences. The message subject and message body are populated with details about the current alert configuration. You can edit these text fields to customize the message. Beneath the message body text box, you can select **Generate message** to populate more details in the message, such as rule names, rule severity levels, and rule tags.
```
